---
layout: post
title:      "A Transition from Healthcare to Software Engineering"
date:       2020-05-17 18:09:13 +0000
permalink:  a_transition_from_healthcare_to_software_engineering
---


When I look back at my life coding wasn't a career focus, but it was always there in some way. The first time coding entered my life in a significantly was back in high school over a decade ago. I was a senior and I needed to take another science course to fulfill a spot in my schedule. One of my previous teachers was offering "Robotics" as a class and I jumped at the chance to take it. Originally it was because I knew the teacher who had a great sense of humor and made even the dullest subject exciting, but after a few weeks I fell in love with the class because of what we ended up doing. On the surface we looked like a bunch of 17-18 year olds playing with Legos, but what we were actually doing was programming the robots we made from them to do different tasks. Our final exam was to create a program that would have our robots stop and turn around if they encountered a dark line on the surface they were rolling on. This was the most frustrating project of my four years and no matter what I did the calibrations were off. I eventually started from scratch with a new robot kit and was able to finish the project with better results. When it was completed I remember having this huge sense of accomplishment. Not only did I build this thing, but I programmed it to do a command and it actually did it! This paired with my computer applications course in the same year made a memorable mark on me when it came to coding and programming. 

During that time the internet and browsers were more plain text and less interactive. I had no idea that there was another layer in the background running all of the games and videos I spent so much of my childhood frequenting. There were websites like Myspace that introduced me to entry level HTML, but I honestly had no idea what I was doing and pasted most of my content from what I could copy from the internet. My computer applications course  went over how to use specific software like Microsoft Word and Excel, but I was lucky enough to have a teacher who offered extra lessons to those interested at the end of the semester.  She showed us a few HTML and CSS commands and also explained how to use them. She even explained how to use them  on social media to make it all relatable. I was hooked. I loved how a few lines of code could completely alter the way webpages looked and interacted and for the first time the idea of creating websites, applications, and software was actually possible. Unfortunately, those weeks breezed by and I entered college and started studying for my degree which was heavily based on biology and anatomy. In the end, I took away the basic understanding of computer languages you could use to create programs that did things and that they were like puzzles: frustrating, but gratifying when completed or solved.

In college there was hardly any room for diving into code and with each class that went by the spark that started in high school slowly faded until the last semester of my Associate degree. I needed a class to fill a general education requirement, and after browsing through the available courses, jumped at the chance to take the second level of computer applications. To my surprise it was almost on the same level as the course I took a few years prior, but I was delighted to find out that my professor also knew how to code and offered short coding problems as extra credit since it didn't correspond with our curriculum. This was my first introduction to JavaScript to which I did as many assignments as possible just to learn more and this was the first time I realized that there were more coding languages than I had ever imagined. I remember my professor showing us the same line of code typed in JavaScript compared to Python, Ruby, and C# and being immediately confused. Just like human languages they had their own syntax that could ruin or improve your code if you weren't paying attention. We had created new ways to communicate with technology and that was mind blowing. At this time I realized the potential of coding and had a glimpse at what they could create (software, applications, games, etc.). I absolutely loved it, but just like before those months passed and I graduated with my degree, applied to my 4-year institution and continued my journey into healthcare. 

Even after years of studying one industry I never could shake my love of programming. I didn't go any further into it after college, because I thought that it would distract me from my main focus of becoming a physical therapist. Oddly enough when stress levels started to rise I found myself going back to entry level programming using free resources like freecodecamp.org and Flatiron's free prep courses. Coding became therapeutic for me. It was something that was familiar yet I still knew almost nothing about and with every new lesson learned my passion for it grew stronger. 

Because of all this, when I had to make the difficult decision to change careers I knew that software engineering would be my next move. Not only would I learn how to code in languages that I was introduced to years ago, but I would be able to create programs and applications that would better the world. On top of that I absolutely love learning and becoming an engineer would allow me to be a life time student since the technology industry is always changing and evolving. This is why I decided to do software engineering and why I am beyond ecstatic that I can finally start this journey in earnest


